Welcome back everyone to this lecture on the drop keyword drop allows us to completely remove a column
from a table in progress equal.
This also automatically removes all of its indexes and constraints involving the column so ill remove
things like check constraints not null constraints unique strengths everything that's associated with
that column.
However what it does not do is it does not remove columns used on other things that are dependent on
it such as views triggers or stored procedures.
If you do want to remove a column that has those dependencies for views triggers and sort of procedures
which are going to talk about in more detail later on you can add in an additional cascade clause in
order to just remove that column and those associated dependencies the general syntax for a dropped
call for dropping a column would be ALTER TABLE table name drop column and then the column name to remove
all those dependencies I previously mentioned.
You can say ALTER TABLE table name drop column provide the column name and add in the keyword cascade
essentially cascading that removal to all those dependencies.
Now if you try to drop a column that does not exist you'll get an error in post gross cycle.
So it's really common to add in and if exists keyword clause before the column name in order to avoid
the error.
So that way it only drops column if that column name exists in that table if you want to drop multiple
columns.
It's almost like adding in multiple column values you simply say drop column Column One name comma column
to name comma etc..
Okay let's go ahead and see a quick example this in P.G. Adelman.
All right.
Here I am in P.G. Ataman recall that we have this new info table that we created when playing around
with the alter commands.
Let's go ahead and drop the people column so we'll do the following.
We're going to say alter table new info we're going to say drop column and then say people we run that.
It worked out correctly which means if I now select everything from new info again run it I don't have
that people column anymore.
Let's see what happens if I were to.
We look at our query history try to run that drop again.
You're going to copy this to my query editor does the same thing we did last time.
ALTER TABLE new info drop column people.
Go ahead and try running this again.
You'll notice you get an error it says column people of relation you info does not exist.
But if I add in if exists right before people what it's going to do it's going to attempt to drop the
column only if it exists and instead of getting an error you'll get back a notice saying column people
of relation new info does not exist.
Skipping alter table and then I'll say query returns successfully.
So instead of an error it just gives you this message.
All right.
And that's basically all there is to dropping columns.
Pretty straightforward exercise.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.